Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to go over creating and train the model for our project.
Let's head to the notebook and get started.
Okay.
Here I am under creating the model section of our exercise notebook.
We'll go ahead and run this cell to run the imports necessary specifically sequential and dense and
optionally you can add in dropout layers that we went over during the classification lecture of the
section of the course.
So you have a lot of flexibility here over the number of layers and neurons you want.
We're going to follow a pretty simple approach here where if we take a look at X train's shape it starts
off with 78 features.
So what I'm going to do is have my first layer match that we'll say model the add dance.
And it's a pretty good rule of thumb that you're very first layer should probably match the same number
of features for just a normal artificial neural network.
And then the activation function we will choose is rectified linear unit and then to try to help prevent
over fitting.
We'll go ahead and add in a dropout layer.
And is something you can play around with.
As far as the dropout rate but I'll go ahead and just do 20 percent here and then I'm going to copy
this and add in a couple more hidden layers but what I'm going to do is I'm essentially going to reduce
the number of neurons about half for each layer.
So we'll go from seventy eight to thirty nine and then thirty nine to 19 and we'll have dropouts on
each of those layers and then this is the layers that you do need to match up for is the output layer
recall we're really just performing binary classification which means we should have one neuron at the
very end.
So one dense neuron so units is equal to one and it should be using an sigmoid activation function.
So recall the sigmoid activation function pushes values to be between 0 and 1 and next we're going to
do is we will compile the model and this is also where you need to match up so because we're performing
a binary classification.
The loss should be binary underscore cross entropy and then after that we'll go ahead and choose our
optimizer and I'll choose Adam from out the miser.
Go ahead and run that cell and make sure compiles.
And then what's next is we need to fit the model.
Here you have a lot of options.
And if you wanted to you could also add in things like early stopping.
But I will go ahead and just fit the model for twenty five epochs.
So we first pass in our training data.
So say X train and Y train and we'll say epochs is equal to twenty five.
Now because this is a much larger dataset it's probably a good idea to feed this in in batches so as
recommended by the task we'll say batch size is equal to two hundred and fifty six.
And then finally we also want to pass in our validation data so we can plot out the losses and see for
over fitting anywhere.
So we'll pass an X test and Y test during the actual fit call.
So if we go ahead and run this let me clear the old running and let me run this guy.
Make sure we don't get any errors.
And there we go.
So I'm going to essentially end it here and in the very next lecture we're going to do is after this
is done training we're going to move on to evaluating model performance.
And again if you're on a slower computer or you're running this on google cloud you can always choose
less epochs choose a larger batch size or just eliminate batch size.
However this is enough samples where you should really be feeding it into batches and everything can
do is if this is taking too long to train is as mentioned before you can actually before normalizing
them for doing train test split just use DNA sample to take a sample fraction of the entire data set
since we are dealing with quite a large dataset.
OK.
So this is currently training I will see you in the next lecture where we begin evaluating this model's
performance.